>> Brian Holt: So
let's frame how code works then.
So I have a little snippet of code
here that is a valid JavaScript, okay?
JavaScript is a thing that we're
gonna call single threaded,
which is a fancy term that you don't
really have to carry about, but
it just means that only one thing
is ever happening at a time.
If you're coming from a different language
this means that there's no concurrency in
JavaScript.
It's not multiple things happening, it's
always just one thing happening at a time.
In general,
it's gonna be what we call procedural.
And I'm just throwing out all these terms
because someone is gonna throw them at
you, I'm trying to get you
used to some of these terms.
But procedural just means it goes if
line one executes, then line two,
then line three, then line four.
It's kinda what you'd expect, right?
It's how you would read.
So this here on line one,
we've declared a variable monthly rent.
And this is, as you might imagine,
representing how much it cost per
month to live in some place, right?
Const just means that we're
declaring a variable.
So now we have this monthly rent variable
that is storing the value of 500, right?
So if I just come underneath here,
and I said console log, monthly rent,
you can see down here in the results,
you can see 500 comes up, right?
So now monthly rent is
representing that 500, right?
If you've ever did algebra,
this is much the same that you'd have
like x squared equals one, right?
And then, you would have to solve for
x, right?
This is the similar idea that we
have these symbols that represent
something else.
Does that make sense?
It's a very fundamental concept.
So let's make sure that you get this,
okay?
So now we have monthly rent.
This console log thing right here,
this is just allowing us
to display this down here.
We'll talk about how that
functions a little bit more later.
But suffice to say,
if you put console log, then parentheses,
whatever you put between those parentheses
is going to be logged out to your console.
Okay, so I'm just gonna delete that.
As you can see here, these little code
blocks are being executed in your browsers
and so you can kind of play around
with them and see what happens.
Just be aware that if
you refresh the page,
it's going to delete
everything that she did so.
Okay, so what is const?
Const is a keyword in JavaScript the same
like I'm declaring a new variable, right?
There's several ways to do that.
We're using const which means that
this can no longer be altered.
So I cannot come down here and
say monthly, I can't spell it, equals 100.
Notice it says right here, invalid
assignment to const monthly rent that's
because when you say const, it can no
longer be reassigned to something else.
If I wanted to do that,
there's a different one called let.
And the only difference between let and
const is let allows you
to reassign it later.
So now this works just fine,
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Speaker 2: Sorry.
>> Brian Holt: Please.
>> Speaker 2: So
when you say reassign it later,
you mean the value of it
can be changed later?
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
the 500 in that case.
>> Brian Holt: Right.
>> Speaker 2: If it's const,
then that monthly rent will always be 500,
you can't change that.
>> Brian Holt: Forever, exactly.
It will forever be 500.
That's a good observation.
So down here on line three we see yearly
rent equals monthly rent times 12, right?
So notice that we're doing math with
monthly rent because monthly rent is just
a stand-in for that 500, right?
>> Brian Holt: But what's great about
this, now if I come in down here and
use monthly rent again,
let's say const decadelyrent.
That's a word, right?
We're rolling with it.
It's decadelyrent cuz
that's a useful thing.
I could say monthlyrent times 120, right?
And then down here I'm just
going to put decadelyrent rent.
And notice that is 10 times bigger.
So like you would expect, right?
Or if you wanna make this
even bit more clear, right,
cuz 12 months in a year and 10 years.
But notice I'm using monthlyRent
in two different places.
The advantages here, instead of just
writing 500 in every single place.
Just now let's say I move places,
and my rent changes, right?
Now we're moving up in the world so
now it's 750, right?
So if I change this to 750, notice that
I only had to change it in one place and
then it just perpetuated to
all the other places, right?
Not only that, but
it makes sense that yearly rent would
be monthly rent times 12, right?
So you can kind of,
it's almost allowing you to document your
code in the process of writing the code.
This is what I was talking
about being clear, right?
It makes sense that yearly rent
would be monthly rent times 12.
>> Brian Holt: Good so far?
>> Brian Holt: Going back to this being
let, and say now monthlyRent = 1000,
cuz of gentrification or
something like that, I don't know.
[LAUGH] What do you think
yearly rent is gonna be now?
Well, notice down here that it is 12,000.
So notice that it's going to take
the last value that you signed, right?
When I do this,
this previous 750 is thrown away.
It's no longer accessible at all, right?
So now it's only 1000.
>> Brian Holt: I think these
things are kind of intuitive,
I hope they're intuitive to you.
They're meant to be intuitive.
But sometimes it's just making
sure that we kind of go over them.
Something else to note here,
so notice that I'm squishing
these things together, right?
So I have yearly rent.
This is called camel casing.
Because it looks like a camel with
the humps in the middle, right?
I'm not making this stuff up.
Someone else did.
This is very common with JavaScript.
If you're coming from
another language like Python,
they tend to do something
called snake casing.
Yep, snake casing looks like that.
This would be valid JavaScript.
So meaning this will
still execute just fine.
I guess I would have to
change it down here, too.
It's just not how we do it in JavaScript,
right?
So I would implore you while you're
writing JavaScript to make sure that
you're doing camel casing.
>> Brian Holt: And notice I can't say like
yearly space rent because that doesn't
make sense to JavaScript.
When it sees the space it's like okay,
you're finished with that previous
thought, and then starting another one.
And it says I don't know what this is,
and so it gives you an error.
So that's why we have to kinda
squish everything together.
And that's what we use camel case that
makes it really easy to read quickly,
right?
Does that makes sense?
Okay, so lowercase first letter, and
then you just kinda capitalize
all the proceeding words.